---
title: "Skullcandy Smokin' Buds + Old iPhone Headphones = Headphones of Win & Awesome"
date: "2008-08-08"
tags:
draft: true
---

So, I’ve been reading on the internet about people who have been modding
their iPhone headphones with new earbuds. There is even a company who
will do it for you. Where is the fun in that? There is none. Real men
take care of it themselves. They get out their soldering irons, wire
cutters, and drills and get down to business.

I didn’t take pictures during the bulk of the process. To be honest, it
was very frustrating and, in hindsight, a different set of headphones
would have been much easier. Explanation to follow.

The <a type="amzn" azid="B000CMS5B2">Skullcandy Smokin’ Buds</a> were
chosen because they:

-   are **very** comfortable.
-   were under \\$35.
-   are white.

The iPhone case on my phone managed to tear apart my old headphones, so
those were already provided. In case you didn’t know, 3rd party
headphones with a mic and button on the cords are fairly hard to come
by, and expensive even if you can find them.

![](/sites/nickvahalik.com/files/IMG_4435.jpg)

The Skullcandy ’phones came apart after cutting around the rims with a
razor blade. Their are epoxied together, so some sort of glue is needed
to put them back together after they are separated.

![](/sites/nickvahalik.com/files/IMG_4437.jpg)

Most headphones (like the iPhone headphones) simply tie the wires in a
not to make sure the wires don’t easily get pulled off the buds. The
Skullcandy wires were glued in-place inside the ear piece. This was the
beginning cause of frustration during this part of the process, as we’ll
see next. Pulling the wire out of the headphones will leave some of the
wire jacket still in the shaft. This gets cleaned out later.

When preparing the iPhone headphones, it works well to cut the wires
right under the knot. The unknotted wire doesn’t work so well when
trying to push it through the rubber part on the Skullcandy headphones.

![](/sites/nickvahalik.com/files/IMG_4440.jpg)

There is no picture for this, but the wire that comes with the
Skullcandy headphones is quite a bit thinner than the wire on the iPhone
headphones. WIthout modification, the iPhone wires would not go up the
rubber part and into the earpiece. The jacket bunched up and was a real
pain to get up there.

To get around this, part of the rubber on top of the earpiece (you can
see it pulled away in the picture) was pulled back and a 1/16th inch
drill bit was used to drill a hole pretty much straight through the
headphone and through the rubber. This cleaned out any of the extra
left-behind wire jacket that was glued, and also made the shaft big
enough to accommodate the iPhone wire.

This step is extremely important, and great care should be taken to make
sure you don’t ruin the jacket. Go through it once with the drill on
low, and once it goes all the way through, then speed it up.

![](/sites/nickvahalik.com/files/IMG_4446.jpg)

Soldering is pretty easy. Just match colors. A quick burst from a
lighter or a match can burn away the jacket on the *very* small wires in
the iPhone headphones. In the right earpiece, there will be 4 wires.
Don’t worry about them. You can safely not solder them to anything and
have your mic and button still work.

When they’ve been tested, you can reattach the buds to the ear pieces
with super-glue. You can also glue the top rubber piece back over the
drilled holes. This makes them louder, too.

![](/sites/nickvahalik.com/files/IMG_4443.jpg)

Great success! Finally, headphones that are comfortable, sound great,
and work flawlessly with the iPhone.
